[MUSIC]
>> Ben Callahan: Let's talk
about how to apply styles.
We looked at a couple different
ways that you can structure or
write your media queries.
But we didn't talk about actually getting
those media queries into an actual
document.
And sort of some the default
behaviors that you can get
supported on older browsers.
So let's jump right in here, I'm gonna
show you guys a little bit of code.
[COUGH] I just kinda
wanna walk through this,
this is just like a standard index.html,
the head of a document.
I'm missing probably a lot of things here,
I just wanted to show a couple key
elements so I've kinda put those in.
First things first,
if you gonna do a response of site,
you have to you have to use
this viewport meta tag.
Actually that should be meta,
not media, sorry about that [LAUGH].
But this is a meta tag that you'll see
in the top of every site that's actually
responding.
What happens is,
all we're saying is that the viewport
that your report needs to be your
actual device width, and I want
you to start your scale out at one like
I don't want you to zoom in or zoom out.
When Steve was standing there,
with the iPhone first gen and
double tapping on those things,
the way I saw that and I was like,
how the heck did he get that
browser to shrink down?
Cuz at that point if you just
open up New York Times and
take your browser down it doesn't
fit in a 320 pixel browser window.
And this is actually what he did.
Apple introduced this okay this is not a
standard actually that's being considered.
And we're gonna take a look at another
standard that's actually gonna probably
replace this at some point but
yeah, what's up?
>> Speaker 2: Is that supposed to be-
>> Ben Callahan: It's supposed to be meta.
Yeah, yeah, sorry.
If you didn't hear me say it earlier, that
media should actually be, it's a meta tag,
it's not a media tag, it's not my bad.
If I had something like a t-shirt,
I'd give it to you right now, but sorry.
[LAUGH] Okay,
so what this is doing is it's telling
the device to report its actual width.
If you don't have this in
an iPhone is gonna report back
that it's a lot wider than it actually is,
which is how the site is kind of
compressed into a small viewport.
So just something like this simply
would allow you to kinda get
the site to actually respond.
And then it will fire appropriately based
on the media queries that you're using.
You can also do some other stuff
with this some evil things like
not allow your users to zoom, okay?
And there's for
a while an older versions of iOS there
was this orientation change bug where
if you looked at a site and portrait
rotated to landscape in the rotated back.
It would zoom you in a little bit and
you had to kind of like pinch.
I've got one of these devices you
probably are familiar with this.
And so one way to prevent that was to say,
don't zoom,
there's another parameter here.
You can specify, I don't recall what it
is, but you can say basically don't zoom,
don't allow them to pinch and
zoom on the site.
A lot of people implemented that
immediately because it fixed that
orientation issue but it also is kind
of an accessibility problem, right?
If somebody has very poor vision and
they want us to still be able to read your
site they should be able to zoom in and
read it.
So you don't really wanna
prevent that kind of behavior.
Something like this in the head is gonna
be necessary if you're gonna get your
site to respond.
Questions on that meta tag?
Okay, so the next,
the rest of this section here is Is a way
that you might include your styles, okay?
There's a ton of people doing
this in a ton of different ways.
We do some some custom rails development,
as well.
And with rails comes the Sass
preprocessor, CSS preprocessor.
So basically, we're using Sass
on all of our projects now.
And there are some really cool things
you can do with this technology,but
you don't have to do any of that other
stuff you can take a standard CSS file,
change the extension to SCSS and
it is a valid Sass file, okay?
And if you just do that with it you can
get some of the benefits that we're gonna
talk about here.
So what we're doing here is with no
media types, no media query at all.
Everybody loads this base CSS file, okay?
And I'm gonna show you what each
of these CSS files looks like.
And then our next line here,
[COUGH] we're specifying this with
a media query of not print, okay?
There's a not keyword which you can use.
And what it does is according
to spec negate the entire query.
Okay, so
any media types as well as features.
So all I'm doing is,
kind of this is basically a way for
me to nest some media queries
because I'm saying I only
wanna apply these more complex layouts
when I'm not printing the page, okay?
And this is a sort of [COUGH] this sort
of a simplified version of this line I'll
show you my site and
the head of my of bencallahan.com
we'll take a look at some more complex
list of media types you might use here.
And then we do a little conditional
comment here that says if.
So this was MQ.CSS, okay?
So this is a file that has our
styles all in a single file but
all inside immediate queries.
All the basic layout was
taken care of with base.
No media queries inside there.
Actually inside base I usually
put a print block at the bottom.
So this is what's loaded first,
linear layout and
then a little bit of stuff at the bottom.
Cuz that linear, that sort of simplistic
layout, is actually really good for
printing, right?
All we need to do is kind of hide our nav,
hide our videos,
audio those kinds of things
you might wanna get rid of.
You might increase font size or
change your margins a bit.
But the base is a really good
starting point for printing as well.
And here we do everything that's a bit
more complex that we maybe wouldn't
necessarily wanna see multiple columns and
those kinds of things in a print scenario.
So that's mq.css.
If I'm less than or equal to IE8, so
if I don't support media queries if I'm IE
that doesn't support media queries.
And I'm not IE mobile then I'm gonna
include this nomq.css for screen.
nomq is, believe it or not,
exactly the same as mq with all
the media queries stripped out, okay?
So you can imagine that if you
were trying to do this without
something like a CSS pre-processor,
you've got two files that are pretty much
identical with a couple of lines
different that you've got to maintain.
Nobody wants to do that.
This is why we use a pre-compiler,
because we can,I'll show you
exactly what I'm talking about.
So what this does, is this ends up
building up a more complex layout
without the need for those media queries.
That all the styles are still applied but
these browsers that don't support
those are gonna just load
the largest resolution layout, okay?
Let's jump in quickly to
look at each of these.
So yeah question at the back.
>> Speaker 3: I think you kinda
mentioned earlier so with your mq.css.
>> Ben Callahan: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: The file is always gonna
be full even if the media query returns
false, right?
Like you'll still have the resource there,
it just won't be applied unless
that media-
>> Ben Callahan: Yep, absolutely, yeah.
Yeah, so
this technique adds one request is
kinda we used to do this
without this this split, okay?
And I'm gonna talk to you a little bit
about why we've shifted to this model now.
And there's some other things you can do
here to kind of limit those things, but
you gonna just need to make a decision
based on the performance needs of your
specific site, all right?
Okay, so base.css.
So again we're looking at what's included.
This is loaded for
everybody regardless of user agent.